README.md, before:

MicroApplication Widget for OpenDash360.
=======

This project creates an Angular-driven Hello World application with widget packaged as a custom element ready to import to the OpenDash360 platform.

OpenDash360 is a framework neutral developer playground, allowing any type of application (from Angular to React, PHP to Java) to be easily imported and used. Applications must be packaged as an Angular Custom Element and configured. Read more at opendash360.com

# Application Example
For our example we've created a basic Angular-driven Hello World app using Google's Material Design components. Review `/src/app/app.component.html` for markup or check out https://material.angular.io.

# Package Custom Element
Once we have our application ready, we will need to create an Angular Custom Element. We'll walk through exporting your project in these steps:
* Install Dependencies
* Export Component
* Generate Custom Element

## Install Dependencies
### Angular Custom Elements Module
To build a custom element, we'll need access to the Angular Custom Elements module:

`npm install @angular/elements`

Then import `createCustomElement` from the module (in our case app.module.ts):

`import {createCustomElement} from '@angular/elements';`

Install Angular Builders Custom Webpack
`npm i -D @angular-builders/custom-webpack`

### Custom Build Script
Later in the project we use these to optimize the rendered output:

`npm install fs-extra concat`

## Export Component
Angular needs any components you want to be created dynamically to be declared in the module's entryComponents array.

### entryComponents Declaration
In your module file, add your root component to this array and declare if necessary. Also empty `bootstrap` as shown:
```javascript
import { createCustomElement } from '@angular/elements';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [],
  entryComponents: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

### Custom Element Delcaration
Your component's Javascript should automatically register itself after checking if it's defined. We'll also need to manually trigger bootstrapping via `ngDoBootstrap` in the module:
```javascript
import { Injector } from '@angular/core';
export class AppModule {
  constructor(private injector: Injector) {
    if (!customElements.get('hello-world-widget')) {
      const helloWorldElement = >createCustomElement(AppComponent, {injector});
      customElements.define('hello-world-widget', helloWorldElement);
    }
  }
  ngDoBootstrap(){}
}
```

### Angular Custom Webpack Builder
Next we build a custom webpack and redefine the webpackJsonp variable to avoid multiple custom elements colliding. Begin by installing the Angular Custom Webpack Builder:

`npm install @angular-builders/custom-webpack`

#### Update Project Builder
Inside your project's `angular.json` find where your builder is defined. Replace the default builder with a custom webpack builder with the following options:
```javascript
"architect": {
  "build": {
    "builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:browser",
    "options": {
      "customWebpackConfig": {
        "path": "./extra-webpack.config.js",
        "mergeStrategies": {
          "externals": "replace"
        }
      },
      ...
    }
  }
}
```
Only add the above to the your builder; do not replace it entirely.

### Create Custom webpackJsonp
This `extra-webpack.config.js` file we referenced above will provide a custom definition for the webpackJsonp variable. In the same directory as your `angular.json`, create a new file named `extra-webpack.config.js` with these contents:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  output: {
    jsonpFunction: 'webpackJsonpYourAppName',
    library: 'yourAppName'
  }
};
```
*Replace references to `YourAppName` shown above with the name of your app.*

## Generate Custom Element
Our desired end result is a single Javascript file defining our custom element. By default Angular produces multiple Javascript files that we need to concatenate and consolidate. To achieve our goal we'll create a script that outputs a single file named your-app-name.js in an `/elements` folder in your project directory. This JS file defines your custom element when linked in the source of a script tag.

### Write Build Script
Create a new file in your project directory named `build-script.js` with the following:
```javascript
const fs = require('fs-extra');
const concat = require('concat');
(async function build() {
  const files = [
    './dist/your-app-name/runtime.js',
    './dist/your-app-name/polyfills.js',
    './dist/your-app-name/main.js',
  ]
  await fs.ensureDir('elements')
  await concat(files, 'elements/your-app-name.js');
})()
```
*Replace references to `your-app-name` shown above with your app.*

#### Update package.json
Add the build script to your project in the `package.json` by including this line:
`"build:element": "ng build --prod --output-hashing none && node build-script.js"`

#### Generate 
Generate the end result of the compiled code with the following command:
`npm run build:element`
This creates a concatenated JS file containing your application as a custom element. This file is located in the /dist folder of your project named as defined above.


# MicroApplication Configuration

Commit message:

Updates to README, project declarations to hello-world-widget2

README.md, after:

MicroApplication Widget for OpenDash360.
=======

This project creates an Angular-driven Hello World application with widget packaged as a custom element ready to import to the OpenDash360 platform.

OpenDash360 is a framework neutral developer playground, allowing any type of application (from Angular to React, PHP to Java) to be easily imported and used. Applications must be packaged as an Angular Custom Element and configured. Read more at opendash360.com

# Application Example
For our example we've created a basic Angular-driven Hello World app using Google's Material Design components. Review `/src/app/app.component.html` for markup or check out https://material.angular.io.

# Create Custom Element
Once we have our application ready, we will need to create an Angular Custom Element. We'll walk through exporting your project in these steps:
* Install Dependencies
* Export Component
* Generate Custom Element

## Install Dependencies
Install Angular Elements:
`npm install @angular/elements`

Then import `createCustomElement` from the module (in our case `app.module.ts`):

`import {createCustomElement} from '@angular/elements';`

Install Angular Builders Custom Webpack:

`npm i -D @angular-builders/custom-webpack`

Install build script optimization:

`npm install fs-extra concat`


Install the Angular Custom Webpack Builder:

`npm install @angular-builders/custom-webpack`

## Export Component
Angular needs any components you want to be created dynamically to be declared in the module's `entryComponents` array.

### entryComponents Declaration
In our module file, we add our root component and clear `bootstrap` as shown:
```javascript
import { createCustomElement } from '@angular/elements';
import { AppComponent } from './app.component';
@NgModule({
  declarations: [AppComponent],
  imports: [BrowserModule],
  providers: [],
  bootstrap: [],
  entryComponents: [AppComponent]
})
export class AppModule { }
```

### Custom Element Delcaration
Manually trigger bootstrapping via `ngDoBootstrap` in our `app.module.ts` like shown:
```javascript
import { Injector } from '@angular/core';
export class AppModule {
  constructor(private injector: Injector) {
    if (!customElements.get('hello-world-widget')) {
      const helloWorldElement = >createCustomElement(AppComponent, {injector});
      customElements.define('hello-world-widget', helloWorldElement);
    }
  }
  ngDoBootstrap(){}
}
```
*Replace mentions of `hello-world-widget` to your application*

#### Update Project Builder
In your `angular.json` replace the default builder with a custom webpack builder such as:
```javascript
"architect": {
  "build": {
    "builder": "@angular-builders/custom-webpack:browser",
    "options": {
      "customWebpackConfig": {
        "path": "./extra-webpack.config.js",
        "mergeStrategies": {
          "externals": "replace"
        }
      },
      ...
    }
  }
}
```
*Only add the above to the your builder; do not replace it entirely.*

### Create Custom webpackJsonp
Create a file named `extra-webpack.config.js` in the same directory as your `angular.json` with:
```javascript
module.exports = {
  output: {
    jsonpFunction: 'webpackJsonpHelloWorldWidget',
    library: 'helloWorldWidget'
  }
};
```
*Replace references to `helloWorldWidget` with your app.*

## Generate Custom Element
Create a script outputting a single file named `your-app-name.js` in an `/elements` folder in your project directory.

### Write Build Script
Create a new file in your project directory named `build-script.js` with:
```javascript
const fs = require('fs-extra');
const concat = require('concat');
(async function build() {
  const files = [
    './dist/your-app-name/runtime.js',
    './dist/your-app-name/polyfills.js',
    './dist/your-app-name/main.js',
  ]
  await fs.ensureDir('elements')
  await concat(files, 'elements/your-app-name.js');
})()
```
*Replace references to `your-app-name` shown above with your app.*

#### Update package.json
Add the build script to your project in the `package.json` with this addition:
`"build:element": "ng build --prod --output-hashing none && node build-script.js"`

#### Export Custom Element
Generate the concatenated JS file containing your application as a custom element with:
`npm run build:element`
This file is located in the /dist folder of your project named as defined above.


# MicroApplication Configuration
